Chris dokumentation (#58)
jbathmann/pyMANGA: web/content/en/docs/getting_started/First applications/First_applications_of_pyMANGA.md

---
title: "First applications of pyMANGA"
linkTitle: "First applications of pyMANGA"
weight: 3
description:
---

> Before you start with the first applications, if you haven't already done so, you should read the installation and preparation instructions for your operating system, this is recommended especially for beginners who have little experience with Python and the input console. These instructions are suitable for all three operating systems (MacOS, Unbunt, Windows), if there are any special features in the execution on the respective systems, please refer to the notes.   

Reviewer: Please Change

> Before you start with the first applications, if you haven't already done so, you should read the installation and preparation instructions for your operating system, this is recommended especially for beginners who have little experience with Python and the input console. These instructions are suitable for all three operating systems (MacOS, Unbunt, Windows), if there are any special features in the execution on the respective systems, please refer to the notes.   

Reviewer: Sorry - was checking the wrong version

<figure>
<img src="/de/static/ausgefuehrte_main_py_Datei_in_der_Eingabekonsole.jpg">
<figcaption><font size = "1"><i><b>Figure 1:</b>Executed main.py file in the input console.</i></font></figcaption>
</figure><p>

Here you can see that the *main.py* file has been executed and is waiting for further input. So the start of MANGA was successful and you can test some first usage examples. You can enter the following code (see figure 2).

	• py main.py -i ProjectLib\ExampleSetups\AllSimple_WithOutput.xml	    [1]

> *-i* describes the index or path of the file in which the input to be used for this example is defined.   

Reviewer: Please Change

<figcaption><font size = "1"><i><b>Figure 2:</b> Error message when trying to <b>py main.py -i ProjectLib\ExampleSetups\AllSimple_WithOutput.xml.</b></i></font></figcaption>
</figure><p>

After executing the code, an error message is displayed, which describes that a folder named *testoutputs* does not exist, but is needed by the program to save the generated data of the simulation. This information can be found in the file *AllSimple_WithOutput.xml*, which defines the input for our example. To view it, you have to open the file using the editor. To do so, please create the directory listed (see figure 2). The specified file path is relative to the folder where you started pyMANGA, see figure 3. To do this, follow the file path in the *pyMANGA-master* folder as shown in Figure 2, right-click on the file, click *Open with* and select the editor (see Figure 3).

<figure>
<img src="/de/static/Inhalt_von_AllSimple_WithOutput.xml,_geoeffnet_mit_dem_Text_Editor.jpg">
<figcaption><font size = "1"><i><b>Figure 3:</b> Content of </b>AllSimple_WithOutput.xml</b>, opened with the Text Editor.</i></font></figcaption>
</figure><p>

> The file contains the red-marked lines, which indicate what is to be output by the program, e.g. the tree height (h_stem) and where to put it, namely in the non-existent folder *testoutputs*, which was defined as the output location for the simulation results. Consequently, you must now create this folder. To do this, right-click in the subfolder *C:\Users\chris\Desktop\pyMANGA-master\ProjectLib\ExampleSetups*, click on Create new folder and name it testoutputs (see Figure 4).

Reviewer: Please change

Copy the path that appears in the PowerShell window and append \OGS and press Enter. The following figure shows the PowerShell window output when OGS is running smoothly. 

<figure>
<a name="Abbildung_11"></a>
<img src="/de/static/Ausgabe_bei_Ordnungsgemaeßer_Funktion_von_OGS.jpg">
<figcaption><font size = "1"><i><b> Figure 11:</b> Output if OGS functions properly.</i></font></figcaption>
</figure><p>

Now you can start the next application example by opening the command prompt in the pyMANGA-master folder and starting pyMANGA as usual. Then enter the following command (see Figure 12).

	py main.py -i ProjectLib\ExampleSetups\OGS3D_SAZOI_BETTINA.xml 				 [5]

<figure>
<a name="Abbildung_12"></a>
<img src="/de/static/zeigt_die_Ausfuehrung_des_Anwendungsbeispiels_mit_OGS.jpg">
<figcaption><font size = "1"><i><b>Figure 12:</b> shows the execution of the application example with OGS.</i></font></figcaption>
</figure><p>

Note: The computing time can take several hours. You can reduce this by opening \pyMANGA-master\ProjectLib\ExampleSetups in the GS3D_SAZOI_BETTINA file under the following path and adding the following line

	<delta_t_ogs> 604800 </delta_t_ogs>							 [6]

> Here 604800 can be varied and corresponds here to one week, so the calculations are not performed for every second, but only per week, which significantly reduces the computing time (see Figure 13). 

Reviewer: This is not correct:

```suggestion
Here 604800 is given in seconds and can be varied. Here, it corresponds here to one week, i.e. the ogs-calculations are not performed for the home timestep in the tree model but only for one week. From the results the porewater distribution is extrapolated under steady state assumptions. Consequently, this parameter has to be used very carefully but is a means to significantly reduce computing time (see Figure 13). 
```

Reviewer: Please change
